Conditional Offers

In order to ensure that conditional offer holders receive all of the information needed to successfully begin their studies at UCL, we strongly encourage you to provide documentary evidence to clear your condition(s) by the 16th September 2023. However, you will need to take into consideration factors such as the time it takes to apply for a student visa, should you require one. As such we advise that you provide the documents to clear your conditions as soon as you can. 

Accepted English language test providers often see a peak in test bookings between May and September so we strongly encourage applicants who need to take a UCL accepted English language test to book a test as soon as possible. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Sample email from GAO 

We understand that you may not currently be in a position to provide evidence that you have met the condition(s) of your offer. However, once you are in receipt of such evidence please upload it to the Applicant Portal: 
 
1) Ensure that your documents are in one of the following formats: PDF, JPG, DOC and DOCX and less than 5MB in size. 
 
2) Log in to the Applicant Portal. 
 
3) Click the blue ‘View’ button. 
 
4) Click the Upload Documents link at the top of the page. 
 
5) Upload your document(s) by clicking ‘Upload new document’. 
 

 

Once we have received your documents, we will endeavour to process them as quickly as we can. Please note that we are currently receiving a high volume of documents and we are processing them as quickly as possible. Your continued patience during this busy time is appreciated. 
 
If you have met all your conditions in full, we will update your offer status to unconditional. If you have failed to meet your conditions, we will discuss your application with the academic department and update your status in the portal once a decision has been made. If we need further documents from you or if you have further conditions to meet, we will contact you by email and reopen the portal to allow you to upload further documents. Please note that you must only upload documents to clear your conditions here. 
 
If you have further questions regarding the above, please contact Graduate Admissions for further advice by calling us on +44 (0)20 8059 0939 or via the Applicant Portal. 
 
If you no longer wish to take up your offer please let us know by declining or withdrawing in the Applicant Portal. 