
How to pay your tuition fees

This guidance explains how you can find out what your programme will cost and the different ways you can pay your tuition fees. 

Paying fees - reminder Fees cannot be paid in person at Student Support and Wellbeing Services. Please see below for details of how to pay.

Every student is charged a fee for the duration of their studies at UCL. This fee covers all elements of your registration, enrolment, tuition, supervision and examination for each full or part academic year for which you are enrolled. It also includes membership to the UCL Students' Union. It doesn't cover living costs, books, materials or travel. Programme fees increase annually and are published approximately 14 months before the next academic year begins. When you accept your place at UCL, you accept responsibility for ensuring your fees are paid, whether that is by you, by a loan or through sponsorship or funding. Local Privacy Notice This guidance explains:

How much you should pay  Your student fee status How to make a payment Paying a deposit Receipts Refunds

How much you should pay For most new students, tuition fees will be quoted on your offer letter. Programme fees for all new students may also be viewed in our online fee schedules. Continuing students can view their upcoming fees for the year in Portico, which is usually updated over the summer. Many fees are subject to inflationary increases of up to 5% annually, so your fees may go up each year. The exceptions are UK Undergraduates, whose fees are capped at £9,250 by the UK Govt, and overseas Undergraduates and Postgraduate Taught students (from 2025-26), whose fees are now fixed at the point of entry. Part-time Part-time students are charged each September for the upcoming year. Your fees for the first year of study are on the relevant online fee schedule and in the prospectus. You can pay for each yearly fee in 3 instalments. Modular (flexible) students Fees for modular Postgraduate Taught and MRes students are generated in Portico for the upcoming year, after the module selection deadline has passed. The fee each year is based on the credit value of the modules you are taking. You can pay for each yearly fee in 3 instalments. If modules are added, removed or changed during the year, please check Portico and contact Student Fees if you think your fees need re-calculating. Repeat fees Repeating full-time, part-time or Modular In line with Section 9 of the Academic Manual, Undergraduates and Postgraduate Taught students pay fees based on the number of credits being repeated. . IOE Repeat placement fees

£900 in 2023-24 (for one placement experience) £900 in 2024-25 (for one placement experience)

Extramural Year Extramural years are additional to your programme of study and not part of the requirements of the course, therefore extramural years incur no tuition fee charges. Study Abroad If you're planning on studying abroad as part of your degree, the Study Abroad website will tell you how that will affect your fees.

Your student fee status Your fee status is determined in accordance with the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007 (SI 2007, No. 779) and subsequent amendments, as approved by Act of Parliament. Channel Islands / Isle of Man students will pay tuition fees at the following rates:

Undergraduate - pay the UK fee rates Postgraduate Research - pay the UK rates Postgraduate Taught and MRes - pay the Overseas fee rates

How your fee status is calculated

How to make a payment Self-funded students Self-funded students are those paying all or part of their fees through private means, usually family. If you are not self-funding, or only partially self-funding, there are different things you will need to do depending on if you are:

a sponsored student funded by Student Finance England, or an equivalent regional authority receiving a scholarship or studentship receiving sponsorship from other sources receiving an NHS Bursary

If you are self-funding, to pay your fees:

log on to your Portico account, access the My Money section, and select Student Statement – Tuition Fees.

Students with partial sponsorship If you are partly sponsored and covering the remaining fee amount yourself, you will need to make sure that your payments are made by the instalment deadlines. If you don't pay the first instalment by the deadline, you may not be able to enrol. When to pay your fees 

Paying your tuition fees online or via bank transfer If you have access to Portico, you must pay via Flywire, our payment portal.  Video of how to make a payment with Flywire UCL does not charge any transaction fee but your card provider may do and this will be clearly detailed to you in the Flywire portal. Flywire will not offer American Express as a payment option for domestic payments. Online Payment Terms Pay fees via Portico

Bank Transfer You can no longer pay tuition fees via direct bank transfer. If you wish to pay via bank transfer, you can start the process by accessing the Flywire portal through the My Money section of Portico. Video about international bank transfers with Flywire

Students who have a UCL Studentship (research), a UCL Scholarship or other departmental fee award You don't need to provide us with written evidence of your funding. The relevant UCL department will pay your fee award directly to us. After the payment is approved, a sponsorship record will appear in Portico to show that you are not paying your own fees. This may not be showing in Portico when you pre/re-enrol, but you don't need to do anything because it should appear by 31 October.

Students in receipt of fee funding from Student Finance If you've applied on time and your funding is confirmed, the Student Loans Company (SLC) will ask UCL's Student and Registry Services to confirm your registration. Once that's confirmed, Portico will show a sponsorship record for the amount of your fee loan. You don't need to provide written evidence of your loan, unless we ask you to. If you're also receiving a maintenance loan, the SLC will contact UCL to confirm your registration, which will initiate payment. If you only receive partial funding from the SLC, please pay your remaining fees before the instalment deadline or you may not be enrolled. Other types of funding

Students in receipt of sponsorship from other sources If you want us to invoice your non-UCL sponsor, you must provide us with written evidence of your sponsorship, before or during the enrolment period. This should be an email from your sponsor or a sponsorship letter. Send it to us by email or bring it to us in person at enrolment. All evidence must include the following details:

Student name UCL student number Amount or percentage of sponsorship Sponsor name, their postal address and email

If emailing your evidence to us, send it to fees.sponsor@ucl.ac.uk with the subject ‘Sponsorship evidence - STUDENT NUMBER’ (please ensure your UCL student number is quoted in the subject). We'll issue an invoice to your sponsor in Term 1 and they'll need to pay for the whole academic year within 28 days. During busy periods, it can take us a few weeks to add your sponsorship to your record, so don't worry if you can't see your sponsorship details on Portico for a while. If they haven't appeared by 31 October, please contact us. If the funds are paid directly to you or to UCL, without needing an invoice from us, your sponsorship information will not appear in Portico.

NHS Bursaries Medical students expecting their fees to be paid by an NHS Bursary have to first apply for a bursary directly through the NHS. Applications must be made within 6 months of the start of the academic year. Failure to apply on time could result in you becoming personally liable for your fees. For further assistance, contact the NHS student helpline on 0300 330 1345 or visit the NHS Bursary website. 

Paying a deposit All Postgraduate Taught programmes and the Eastman Dental Institute require applicants to pay a deposit. All deposits will be deducted from the first tuition fee instalment. You must pay via Flywire, which is accessible through Portico. Tuition fee deposits

Receipts Receipts may be accessed from your Student Statement - Tuition Fees.

Refunds Refunds will only be paid on request and are at our discretion. We try to process all refunds as soon as possible, but during busy periods your request may take 2 to 3 weeks to be processed. You must not intentionally overpay your fees in order to obtain living costs or to circumvent any government regulation or restriction. Any payments intended for living costs will, upon receipt of a refund request, be returned to the original sender. UCL must abide by UK money laundering laws. All authorised refunds are returned to source. Credit or debit card payments will be refunded back to the original payment card. UCL will not refund any shortfalls due to exchange rate fluctuations, or offer compensation for any bank or other charges incurred. Refund instructions with Portico access Log in to Portico and follow these instructions:

MyMoney Tuition Fees refund request

If your account is in credit and there are no outstanding sponsor invoices or other UCL debts on your account, you'll be able to apply for a refund and Student Fees will be automatically notified of this request. Refund instructions without Portico access Email Student Fees to request a refund

Pay your fees Contact Student Fees Telephone: +44 (0) 20 3108 7284Email: fees@ucl.ac.uk Opening hours: Monday to Friday, 9am - 5pm